+++
title = "Algorithms"
date = 2025-10-29
+++

Recently my friends and I created "top 100" playlists where we each curate 100 songs into spotify/tidal playlists and share with each other. This was the second time that we created playlists for each other
and I highly recommend you do it with your friends as well! +++

In each of my friends playlist I found songs from different genres, times, places, languages. Some listen to pop, others listen to country. Metal, J-pop, Jazz, Folk, all collected together in a large confusing hump that is sure to induce the greatest of whiplashes

I love it.

In the end we collected all our playlists together to create playlist of ~1000 songs. I was introduced to many songs that I wouldn't normally listen to day-to-day, but it got me thinking about how I explore music, about how we all explore music.
When I am looking for new music to enjoy I am usually recommended by Spotify/Tidal or YouTube, these algorithms that feed me related content suited to my tastes.
And you could argue that the algorithm does it's job, it finds material that you would enjoy and works in a similar sphere to what you are familiar with viewing.

But I believe it's getting worse. 

Many of these songs or videos (especially on YouTube) are starting to be generated by AI, making it harder to find meaningful pieces that are worth listening to. 
This can range from fully generated "low-fi" playlists to AI generated playlists of surface level songs. 

I wouldn't normally listen to most country music or metal, but those genres don't come across my desk that often. It was only after having another human being recommend me a piece did I give it a chance.
This is why I believe that Human curated content will always trump any sort of algorithm or AI. Algorithms will never recommend me songs outside my bubble and if it **did** I would never click on it.
Discovering new art is infinitly more excited when you have another person to experience it with. To converse and reflect on the piece brings so much joy compared to keeping it to yourself.

So what am I trying to say... Algorithms are good at finding stuff that you are already into, but terrible at finding new experices that allow you to grow. Algorithms and AI will inheritly recommend what you click on, and therefore will
it is incentivized to not show you content that you are uncomfortable with. They are optimized to retain your attention. 

Secondly having other human curated recommandations are 100% the best way to get familiar with new works. Whether that's someone you know or someone's review online, you can take their experience and relate you it to your own.
You can discuss and find differing interpretations of the same piece. In the end you may find new music that you enjoy!!

This expands into all forms of content of course, whether that's movies, music, games, blog, websites.

Anyway I don't think it's that deep, enjoy the content that you like to enjoy. Share your interests with the people you love and maybe you'll find that the world is a bigger place than you think. 


